---
title: Choosing a good name for your projects
layout: post
---

I found always difficult to decide a name for my projects. Most of the time I
fail without even deciding one, which is the easiest way to prevent a project
from being released. Maybe you think it's a futile question and the project
itself is the most important thing. Most of the time this is true, but remember
that the name you're not choosing is what people will use from now on to refer
to your work.

Deciding a name for your projects is *creative*: you can choose whatever name
you want, you don't have any constraint.

Deciding a name for your projects is *hard*: the name should reflect style and
spirit of the project, it should also be easy to remember and catchy.

Projects themselves must always be referable, that's why I usually refer to
them using *code names*, but be careful to find a real name as soon as you can
or else you're going to stick with the code name. This is an easy consequence,
but most of the time you can do better just thinking about it a little bit
more.

For our AdventureJam project we started with the code name *The daily routine*,
but after some time we decided to call the game *Routine*.

Well, this is a clear violation of the only rule of thumb I described here
trying to choose good project names, but I think this case is different. I'm
happy with it because I think we've been lucky to have found a good name from
the beginning of the project.

The game we're working on is a text adventure that tries to better understand
pros and cons of our daily routine. What is the subtle difference between a
life spent repeating the same actions day after day and a life you can consider
truly lived?

I like to inspect this broad topic with a little game and hopefully it will
help me and my team to better understand how almost every aspect of our
existence has its own meaning, even when they become part of our routine.
