---
title: Creating a Simple Point-and-Click Adventure Game Using the SDL Framework - Introduction
layout: post
date: 2025-01-09 09:00:00 -0500
---

This is the first in a series of posts documenting the process of creating a simple point-and-click adventure game for macOS and iOS, written in C using the SDL framework.

## Background

I [attempted this project about five years ago]({% post_url adventure-game/2020-01-17-intro %}) without success. At that time, [I used Swift and SpriteKit]({% post_url adventure-game/2020-01-18-getting-started-with-spritekit %}), but lacked a clear game design concept.

This time, I began with a game design in mind, significantly reduced the project's scope, and managed to create a prototype game with a simple story and design.

## Game Design

The game is intended for very young children (ages 2 to 4). It features a fox who wants to slide down a slide in a playground.

The game is divided into four scenes:

1. Intro - Title screen and main menu
2. Playground Entrance - The fox needs to find a way to enter the playground
3. Playground - The fox must fix the slide with help from her friend, the squirrel
4. Outro

## Collection

The initial part of the series covers setting up the Xcode project to build a macOS app. I faced challenges due to using a relatively old operating system and Xcode versions, 11.7 and 12.4, respectively.

The subsequent posts focus on design choices, which were largely influenced by my inexperience with C.

In the final part, I create a new Xcode project to build an iOS app.

Posts in this collection:

{% assign category = page.categories | first -%}
{% assign posts = site.categories[category] | reverse | where_exp: 'post', 'post.id != page.id' -%}
{% if posts.size < 1 -%}
  * Coming soon...
{% endif %}
{% for post in posts -%}
  * [{{ post.title }}]({{ post.url | relative_url }})
{% endfor %}
