---
title: Blog content editor powered by LLM
layout: post
---

I decided to use the OpenAI API to proofread and improve all the content in this blog.

I first created a script to reformat all the posts to remove redundant new lines, that are new lines that don't impact text layout, for instance single new lines in a paragraph. I did this in order to make it easier to review changes generated by the AI powered content editor.

Then I created another script to call the OpenAI API with a simple prompt to ask ChatGPT to proofread and improve the input content and ran it for on each blog post. The prompt explicitly asks to minimize the amount of changes because I wanted to correct grammar mistakes and make posts easier to read while reducing the amount of non original content.

* [`format_post.py`](https://github.com/curlybracketshq/giovanni.curlybrackets.it/blob/03d2b30c/scripts/format_post.py) - Removes redundant new lines from a post.
* [`post_diff.py`](https://github.com/curlybracketshq/giovanni.curlybrackets.it/blob/03d2b30c/scripts/post_diff.py) - Compares posts content to see if there are any differences other than new lines. I used this script to verify that the result of `format_post.py` didn't change the content of the post.
* [`proof_read.py`](https://github.com/curlybracketshq/giovanni.curlybrackets.it/blob/03d2b30c/scripts/proof_read.py) - Generates an improved version of the input content.

The result is ok. I spent some time manually reviewing the output from the LLM. It didn't allucinate much. In some cases it unnecessarily wrapped the whole post content in a markdown code block, but in general the level of utility of tools such as the ChatGPT API is pretty amazing.
